adding management api docs with some examples (#5925)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 14/umbraco-cms/reference/management-api/README.md

---
description: Get started with the Management API.
---

# Management API

> The Management API delivers headless capabilities built directly into Umbraco. In comparison with the Content Delivery API, Management API allows you to interact with everything else from the backoffice apart from the content and media items. You can then receive responses in a JSON format and lets you preset them in different channels, using your preferred technology stack. This feature preserves the friendly editing experience of Umbraco, while also ensuring a performant delivery of content in a headless fashion. And with its different extension points, you can tailor this API to fit a broad range of requirements.

Author: ```suggestion
The Management API delivers headless capabilities built directly into Umbraco. In comparison with the Content Delivery API, Management API allows interaction with everything else from the backoffice apart from the content and media items. You can then receive responses in a JSON format and lets you preset them in different channels, using your preferred technology stack. This feature preserves the friendly editing experience of Umbraco, while also ensuring a performant delivery of content in a headless fashion. And with its different extension points, you can tailor this API to fit a broad range of requirements.
```

Read more about Swagger in the [API versioning and OpenAPI](../api-versioning-and-openapi.md) article.

From the Swagger documentation you can select a definition to navigate to Umbraco Management API or the Content Delivery API. You can also create a custom documentation in the swagger which you can read more about in the [Custom Swagger API with Authorization](../custom-swagger-api.md) article.

![Umbraco Management API documentation in Swagger](../images/management-api-swagger.png)

In the Swagger Umbraco Management API you can find a collection of the available endpoints in this version of Umbraco. It also includes all the legacy APIs that are available for backward compatibility.

## Authorization

The Management API endpoints are protected by the backoffice authorization policy and need an authentication token to interact with them.

To setup the authorization, click on **Authorize** button:

![Umbraco Management API Authorize Button](../images/management-api-swagger-authorize-button.png)

> Then a popup will appear with some setup information and login form for authorization:

Author: this is not a step by step guide but more like information. So I will leave this as it is  😄

![Umbraco Management API Authorize Login](../images/management-api-swagger-authorize-instructions.png)

> The available integration for the authorization is done via a backoffice user with the integration of **OAuth2, authorizationCode with PKCE**. If you are working on a production environment, you will need to setup an OAuth2 integration with the following Umbraco Authentication specifications:

Author: ```suggestion
The available integration for the authorization is done via a backoffice user with the integration of `OAuth2, authorizationCode with PKCE`. If you are working on a production environment, you will need to setup an OAuth2 integration with the following Umbraco Authentication specifications:
```

**Authorization URL**

```http
{yourdomain}/umbraco/management/api/v1/security/back-office/authorize
```

**Token URL**

```http
{yourdomain}/umbraco/management/api/v1/security/back-office/token
```

**Flow**

```http
authorizationCode with PKCE
```

**client_id**

```http
umbraco-swagger
```

You can see an example of how to setup OAuth2 with Postman in the [Swagger Setup in Postman](./postman-setup-swagger) article.

## Test an Endpoint

In order to test a Management API endpoint, follow these steps: , authorize localhost then click on the first endpoint , execute check response 200- then click

> 1. Authenticate via the **Authorize** button. On a development environment you need only a `client_id` which has a default value of `umbraco-swagger` to login. Then click **Authorize** and you will be logged in:

Author: change the heading to heading one for this one to make it more clear. 👍

![Umbraco Management API when Authenticated](../images/management-api-swagger-authenticated.png)

2. Expand the first endpoint of **Audit Log** and click **Try it out**

![Umbraco Management API Endpoint - Try it Out Button](../images/management-api-try-it-out.png)

> 3. Then you will have the option to change the values of the **parameters**, however in this case let´s leave the default values as they are. Now click on **Execute** so we can get some data for our **Audit Log** endpoint.

Author: "You now have the option to change the values of the **parameters**. In this case, let´s leave the default values as they are. " this is just an info, not really something that should be considered an action to be a step by itself 🤔

To set the authorization, click on the **Authorize** button:

![Umbraco Management API Authorize Button](../images/management-api-swagger-authorize-button.png)

Then a popup will appear with some setup information and login form for authorization:

![Umbraco Management API Authorize Login](../images/management-api-swagger-authorize-instructions.png)

The available integration for the authorization is done via a backoffice user with the integration of `OAuth2, authorizationCode with PKCE`. If you are working on a production environment, you will need to setup an OAuth2 integration with the following Umbraco Authentication specifications:

**Authorization URL**

```http
{yourdomain}/umbraco/management/api/v1/security/back-office/authorize
```

**Token URL**

```http
{yourdomain}/umbraco/management/api/v1/security/back-office/token
```

**Flow**

```http
authorizationCode with PKCE
```

**client_id**

```http
umbraco-swagger
```

You can see an example of how to setup OAuth2 with Postman in the [Swagger Setup in Postman](./postman-setup-swagger) article.

> ## Test an Endpoint

Author: ```suggestion
# Test an Endpoint
```

---
description: Get started with the Management API.
---

# Management API

> The Management API delivers headless capabilities built directly into Umbraco. Unlike the Content Delivery API, the Management API enables interaction with everything else in the backoffice except for the Content and Media items.

Reviewer: > everything else in the backoffice except for the Content and Media items.

This is not true. Content and media items are indeed also managed with the Management API. I think the sentence should rather be something along the lines of "the Management API allows for managing everything within the backoffice".

> The API returns responses in a JSON format, which can be presented in different channels using your preferred technology stack. This feature maintains the user-friendly editing experience of Umbraco, while also ensuring an efficient delivery of content in a headless manner. Additionally, with its different extension points, the API can be customized to meet a wide range of requirements.

Reviewer: I would skip this section. It sounds like something describing the Delivery API. The Management API is for managing, editing, handling, whatever ---- not for "delivery of content" 😄

The Management API can also be used for Custom apps or Workflows with OpenID Connect.

{% hint style="info" %}
The Management API is a replacement for the backoffice controllers that lacked RESTful capabilities.
{% endhint %}

## Swagger Documentation

Umbraco ships with Swagger to document the Management API. Swagger and the Swagger UI are based on [Swashbuckle.AspNetCore](https://github.com/domaindrivendev/Swashbuckle.AspNetCore/) and is available at `{yourdomain}/umbraco/swagger`. For security reasons, both are disabled in non-production environments.

> Read more about Swagger in the [API versioning and OpenAPI](../api-versioning-and-openapi.md) article.

Reviewer: Be mindful that the linked article solely concerns itself with the Delivery API. While the techniques in the article could theoretically be applied to the Management API, it would be a really bad idea to do so. On top of that, there is a big risk of confusing the two here, which is definitively bad - the Delivery API is inherently public, while the Management API certainly is not.

Author: Ah makese sense then! I will remove the sentence linking to API versioning to not cause these confusions 👍

> The Swagger documentation allows you to select a definition and go to either Umbraco Management API or Content Delivery API. You can also create custom documentation in Swagger by referring to the [Custom Swagger API with Authorization](../custom-swagger-api.md) article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Swagger documentation allows you to select a definition and go to either Umbraco Management API or Content Delivery API. If you are extending the Management API with your own controllers, you can also create custom documentation for these in Swagger. See [this article](../custom-swagger-api.md) for details.
```

![Umbraco Management API documentation in Swagger](../images/management-api-swagger.png)

> In the Swagger Umbraco Management API, you can find a collection of available endpoints in this version of Umbraco. It also includes all the legacy APIs that are available for backward compatibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Swagger Umbraco Management API, you can find a collection of available endpoints in this version of Umbraco. 
```

We won't really be including legacy APIs from the get-go --- if anything we should remove the comment in Swagger that states so. Down the line though, legacy (obsolete) APIs will be included, as we evolve the API.

## Authorization

The Management API endpoints are protected by the backoffice authorization policy and need an authentication token to interact with them.

> To set the authorization:
> 1. Click on the **Authorize** button:

Author: ```suggestion
To set the authorization, click on the **Authorize** button:
```

![Umbraco Management API Authorize Button](../images/management-api-swagger-authorize-button.png)

Then a popup will appear with some setup information and login form for authorization:

![Umbraco Management API Authorize Login](../images/management-api-swagger-authorize-instructions.png)

The available integration for the authorization is done via a backoffice user with the integration of `OAuth2, authorizationCode with PKCE`. If you are working on a production environment, you will need to setup an OAuth2 integration with the following Umbraco Authentication specifications:

**Authorization URL**

```http
{yourdomain}/umbraco/management/api/v1/security/back-office/authorize
```

**Token URL**

```http
{yourdomain}/umbraco/management/api/v1/security/back-office/token
```

**Flow**

```http
authorizationCode with PKCE
```

**client_id**

```http
umbraco-swagger

> ```

Reviewer: > If you are working on a production environment, you will need to setup an OAuth2 integration with the following Umbraco Authentication specifications:

I don't really understand this. Are we trying to tell people that they can use Postman or other tools to connect to the Management API in production here? The mentioning of "production" is super confusing here.

Also, you likely won't "setup an OAuth2 integration" - if anything you'll "connect via OAuth2".

You can see an example of how to setup OAuth2 with Postman in the [Swagger Setup in Postman](./postman-setup-swagger) article.

# Test an Endpoint

To test a Management API endpoint, follow these steps:

> 1. Authenticate via the **Authorize** button. On a development environment you need only a `client_id` which has a default value of `umbraco-swagger` to login. Then click **Authorize** and you will be logged in:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Authenticate via the **Authorize** button. Make sure you use `umbraco-swagger` as the `client_id`:
```

You will ever only need the `client_id` - the `client_secret` should always be left blank because of the chosen auth flow.

---
description: Get started with the Management API.
---

# Management API

> The Management API delivers headless capabilities built directly into Umbraco. The Management API allows for managing everything within the backoffice.

Author: ```suggestion
The Management API delivers headless management capabilities built directly into Umbraco. The Management API is used by the new backoffice to communicate with the backend.
```

Reviewer: Makes sense to me 😄

The Management API can also be used for Custom apps or Workflows with OpenID Connect.

{% hint style="info" %}
The Management API is a replacement for the backoffice controllers that lacked RESTful capabilities.
{% endhint %}

## Swagger Documentation

Umbraco ships with Swagger to document the Management API. Swagger and the Swagger UI are based on [Swashbuckle.AspNetCore](https://github.com/domaindrivendev/Swashbuckle.AspNetCore/) and is available at `{yourdomain}/umbraco/swagger`. For security reasons, both are disabled in non-production environments.

The Swagger documentation allows you to select a definition and go to either Umbraco Management API or Content Delivery API. If you are extending the Management API with your own controllers, you can also create custom documentation for these in Swagger. See [Custom Swagger API](../custom-swagger-api.md) article for details.

![Umbraco Management API documentation in Swagger](../images/management-api-swagger.png)

In the Swagger Umbraco Management API, you can find a collection of available endpoints in this version of Umbraco.

## Authorization

> The Management API endpoints are protected by the backoffice authorization policy and need an authentication token to interact with them.

Author: ```suggestion
The Management API endpoints are protected by the backoffice authorization policies and need an authentication token to interact with them.
```

Reviewer: Yep - definitively plural.

Author: 🙈

To set the authorization, click on the **Authorize** button:

![Umbraco Management API Authorize Button](../images/management-api-swagger-authorize-button.png)

> Then a popup will appear with some setup information and login form for authorization:

Author: ```suggestion
Then a popup will appear with some setup information and a login form for authorization:
```

Reviewer: Yeah 👍

![Umbraco Management API Authorize Login](../images/management-api-swagger-authorize-instructions.png)

The available integration for the authorization is done via a backoffice user with the integration of `OAuth2, authorizationCode with PKCE`. Swagger is only enabled in non-production environments, so if you need to access the Management API in production, you need a different client.

{% hint style="info" %}

In production environment, only `umbraco-back-office` **client** is allowed to connect to the Management API. In non-production environments, the `umbraco-swagger` and `umbraco-postman` **clients** can be used.

You can see an example of how to connect a backoffice user via OAuth2 in Postman in the [Swagger Setup in Postman](./postman-setup-swagger) article.

{% endhint %}

> When in non-production environment, you will need to connect via OAuth2 with the following Umbraco Authentication specifications:
> 
> **Authorization URL**
> 
> ```http
> {yourdomain}/umbraco/management/api/v1/security/back-office/authorize
> ```
> 
> **Token URL**
> 
> ```http
> {yourdomain}/umbraco/management/api/v1/security/back-office/token
> ```
> 
> **Flow**
> 
> ```http
> authorizationCode with PKCE
> ```
> 
> **client_id**
> 
> ```http
> umbraco-swagger
> ```

Author: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: 👍

# Test an Endpoint

To test a Management API endpoint, follow these steps:

1. Authenticate via the **Authorize** button. Make sure you use `umbraco-swagger` as the `client_id`:

![Umbraco Management API when Authenticated](../images/management-api-swagger-authenticated.png)

{% hint style="info" %}

> In non-production environments, you will always need only the `client_id` to authenticate. The `client_secret` should always be left blank because of the chosen authentication flow.

Author: ```suggestion
In non-production environments, you will always need only the `client_id` to authenticate. The `client_secret` should always be left blank as no secrets have been configured for the development-only clients. 
```

Reviewer: I would go with something like "...should always be left blank, as the authentication flow does not use client secret."

Author: thank you for your suggestion, I have applied it 🙌
